In this lecture, I will show you how to download and install the MySQL community server on your Windows
box to do that, launch your Web browser, first download visual C++ on your machine.
You need to install visual C++ for the MySQL to be installed.
This is a prerequisite your most of the Windows machines will not have this installed.
So go ahead and install this.
So if it's a 64 bit machine, download this exe.
If it is a 32 bit machine, you can download that. Once you download it.
It's a super easy installation.
Double click, it will open up, runit.
It's a two step process.
Finish that installation and then go back to Google again.
Search for My SQL community server download, My SQL community server, download, click on the
first link.
Here you can install or download the MySQL installer for Windows.
This is the community version, which is the open source version.
You can download the Zip Archive or installer is the way to go.
Go to the download page.
You have two options here.
The first option will download the minimum installer, which will later on pull the packages.
Or you can download this 420 MB file, which will have all the packages that are required.
When you run the first installer, once you download it, it will pull all the packages on the fly.
You can choose either of them.
I have the first version downloaded.
I go here, launch the installer, click on Run that will launch the installation for us.
So here you have a choice to pick what you want to install, if you want to just install the MySQL server
and nothing else, then you can choose this.
Or if you want all the developer tools, then you can choose this.
There are several unnecessary things in this developer that will get installed.
Some of them might even fail during the installation phase.
So I'm going to choose the server only.
That's good enough for us because we are going to use the MySQL client, the MySQL workbench, to connect
to this MySQL server.
Click on next.
Leave the default, as it is, the location where it's going to be installed click on next again.
So it says there are some warnings thats ok I have that location from earlier installation in your case, you
might not see this say yes.
So My SQL server is ready to be installed, execute.
Now, it's going to pull that particular package from over the Internet.
And it will do the installation for us.
There we go.
It's finished. Click on next.
Next again, choose the defaults here for high availability.
It has replication managers clustering and all that.
That's not required.
Say next again.
So the port by default is three three O six as it is.
Record next.
Here it says, use strong password encryption, this is recommended, so all the latest versions of
MySQL starting from My SQL eight use password encryption.
So if you are using My SQL five in your client, for example, if you are working on a Java application
and if your driver, the jdbc driver you use is five dot x, you will have to upgrade the driver
to My SQL eight.
Otherwise, your application will stop communicating with the database server because now the passwords
are encrypted.
That is what it is saying.
If you want to work with legacy applications, you will have to choose the second option or else just
upgrade the JDBC driver in your projects.
Click next, so here you can give your root password.
For me, it's simple test one, two, three, four, because I'm going to use this later on in my applications.
You can choose whatever password you want as the root password, but make sure you use the same password
in other applications as well.
Click on next and it will launch. This is the Windows service name.
If you want to change that, you can change it.
I'm going to leave it as it is standard system account.
That's fine not for a custom user.
If it is for the entire system.
Click on next.
And execute.
So it's going to do its installation and set up.
We'll finish in a few seconds, it's installing the database now, so I'm going to pass it unless it
finishes, I'm going to pass the regarding.
I took a few seconds and now it's complete hit finish, it will ask a few more questions it says will
now walk you through the configuration, but there is not much configuration.
Say, next, and we are done hit finish.
And now the MySQL server should be up and running on your machine in the next lecture will install MySQL
workbench and validate this MySQL server installation.